docs/api.rst, before:

Library API
===========

Highilght.js exports a few functions as methods of the ``hljs`` object.


``highlight(name, value, ignore_illegals, continuation)``
------------------------------------------------------------------

Core highlighting function.
Accepts a language name, or an alias, and a string with the code to highlight.
The ``ignore_illegals`` parameter, when present and evaluates to a true value,
forces highlighting to finish even in case of detecting illegal syntax for the
language instead of throwing an exception.
The ``continuation`` is an optional mode stack representing unfinished parsing.
When present, the function will restart parsing from this state instead of
initializing a new one.
Returns an object with the following properties:

* ``language``: language name, same as the one passed into a function, returned for consistency with ``highlightAuto``
* ``relevance``: integer value
* ``value``: HTML string with highlighting markup
* ``top``: top of the current mode stack


``highlightAuto(value)``
------------------------

Highlighting with language detection.
Accepts a string with the code to highlight.
Returns an object with the following properties:

* ``language``: detected language
* ``relevance``: integer value
* ``value``: HTML string with highlighting markup
* ``second_best``: object with the same structure for second-best heuristically detected language, may be absent


``fixMarkup(value, tabReplace, usBR)``
--------------------------------------

Post-processing of the highlighted markup.
Accepts a string with the highlighted markup and two optional values:

* ``tabReplace``: arbitrary string (may contain HTML) to replace TAB characters with
* ``useBR``: a boolean flag to replace real line-breaks with ``<br>`` which is useful for non-``<pre>`` containers


``highlightBlock(block, tabReplace, useBR)``
--------------------------------------------

Applies highlighting to a DOM node containing code.
Accepts a DOM node and two optional parameters for ``fixMarkup``.

This function is the one to use to apply highlighting dynamically after page load
or within initialization code of third-party Javascript frameworks.


``initHighlighting()``
----------------------

Applies highlighting to all ``<pre><code>..</code></pre>`` blocks on a page.

To control tab replacement  use global flags on ``hljs`` object before initialization:

::

  hljs.tabReplace = '    '; //4 spaces
  hljs.initHighlighting();

Also, to prevent the new prefixing of ``hljs-`` to all classes generated by
highlight.js:

::

  hljs.classPrefix = '';
  hljs.initHighlighting();


``initHighlightingOnLoad()``
----------------------------

Attaches highlighting to the page load event.


``registerLanguage(name, language)``
------------------------------------

Adds new language to the library under the specified name. Used mostly internally.

* ``name``: a string with the name of the language being registered
* ``language``: a function that returns an object which represents the
  language definition. The function is passed the ``hljs`` object to be able
  to use common regular expressions defined within it.


.. _getLanguage:

``getLanguage(name)``
---------------------

Looks up a language by name or alias.

Returns the language object if found, ``undefined`` otherwise.

Commit message:

Unifying tabReplace, useBR and classPrefix under options.

docs/api.rst, after:

Library API
===========

Highilght.js exports a few functions as methods of the ``hljs`` object.


``highlight(name, value, ignore_illegals, continuation)``
---------------------------------------------------------

Core highlighting function.
Accepts a language name, or an alias, and a string with the code to highlight.
The ``ignore_illegals`` parameter, when present and evaluates to a true value,
forces highlighting to finish even in case of detecting illegal syntax for the
language instead of throwing an exception.
The ``continuation`` is an optional mode stack representing unfinished parsing.
When present, the function will restart parsing from this state instead of
initializing a new one.
Returns an object with the following properties:

* ``language``: language name, same as the one passed into a function, returned for consistency with ``highlightAuto``
* ``relevance``: integer value
* ``value``: HTML string with highlighting markup
* ``top``: top of the current mode stack


``highlightAuto(value)``
------------------------

Highlighting with language detection.
Accepts a string with the code to highlight.
Returns an object with the following properties:

* ``language``: detected language
* ``relevance``: integer value
* ``value``: HTML string with highlighting markup
* ``second_best``: object with the same structure for second-best heuristically detected language, may be absent


``fixMarkup(value)``
--------------------

Post-processing of the highlighted markup. Currently consists of replacing indentation TAB characters and using ``<br>`` tags instead of new-line characters. Options are set globally with ``configure``.

Accepts a string with the highlighted markup.


``highlightBlock(block)``
-------------------------

Applies highlighting to a DOM node containing code.

This function is the one to use to apply highlighting dynamically after page load
or within initialization code of third-party Javascript frameworks.


``configure(options)``
----------------------

Configures global options:

* ``tabReplace``: a string used to replace TAB characters in indentation.
* ``useBR``: a flag to generate ``<br>`` tags instead of new-line characters in the output, useful when code is marked up using a non-``<pre>`` container.
* ``classPrefix``: a sting prefix added before class names in the generated markup, used for backwards compatibility with stylesheets.

Accepts an object representing options with the values to updated. Other options don't change
::

  hljs.configure({
    tabReplace: '    ', // 4 spaces
    classPrefix: ''     // don't append class prefix
                        // useBR isn't set, so isn't changed
  })
  hljs.initHighlighting();


``initHighlighting()``
----------------------

Applies highlighting to all ``<pre><code>..</code></pre>`` blocks on a page.



``initHighlightingOnLoad()``
----------------------------

Attaches highlighting to the page load event.


``registerLanguage(name, language)``
------------------------------------

Adds new language to the library under the specified name. Used mostly internally.

* ``name``: a string with the name of the language being registered
* ``language``: a function that returns an object which represents the
  language definition. The function is passed the ``hljs`` object to be able
  to use common regular expressions defined within it.


.. _getLanguage:


``getLanguage(name)``
---------------------

Looks up a language by name or alias.

Returns the language object if found, ``undefined`` otherwise.
